27/11/2024


css: its is used to design webapp and to make it responsive.
        -css stands for cascading style sheet
        -latest version is css3

Q. What are the uses of css
Q. how to use css
    -there are three ways to use css
    1. inline css: inside a starting tag we use style attribute and in that we add property and value
    2. internal css: in html file we use style tag and in that we select element apply css property
            syntax: selector{
                property:value;
                property:value;
                property:value;
            }
    3. external css: in this we create a seperate css file and inport that css in html file head part 
            syntax: selector{
                property:value;
                property:value;
                property:value;
            }

selector in css : selecting an element
1. element or tag name selector : in this we use element or tag name to apply css property
2. group selector : we make group selector to apply css property
3. id selector (#): you have to apply css property in single element in that case we use it
4. class selector (.) : you have to apply bunch of css property to specific element in that case we use it
5. universal selector (*) : we have to apply all css property to all element available in html page


border: a line drawn around an element

box-model: it contain four point
    1. content : it can be any image or text
    2. padding : it is used to clear area between content and element border
    3. border : a line drawn around an element
    4. margin : it is used to clear area outside of the element border

position:
    -it is used to move element after applying left, right, top, and bottom property value.
    -by default every element has position:static;
    1. position:static;(default)
    2. position:relative; element will move from left, right, top and bottom side 
    3. position:absolute; when we want to move child element according to its parent element
    4. position:fixed; when we have to fixed on screen window
    5. position:sticky; when we have to stick element on screen window

Media Query: it is used to apply different style rule to an element according to different screen width

syntax:  @media screen and (screen-width){
    css code
}

device screen-width >=1200px  xl screen
device screen-width >=992px  lg screen
device screen-width >=768px  md screen
device screen-width >=576px  sm screen
device screen-width <576px  xsm screen

screen width
1. max-width: css property will applicable from its minimum width to its max-width not abve to it;
2. min-width: css property will be applicable from its minimum width to above width

float
    -it is used to move block element side by side
    -it has three values left, right, none

overflow
    -it is used to fit big content into small box
    -overflow:visible; is default
    overflow:hidden; //content going outside will hidden
    overflow:
